Local AAA Authentication
========================
Configuring Local AAA Authentication
------------------------------------
    R1(config)# username <basic-user> algorithm-type scrypt secret <password>
    R1(config)# username <admin-user> algorithm-type scrypt secret <password>
    R1(config)# aaa new-model
    R1(config)# aaa authentication login default local-case

Note: 
_When using `local-case`the username is case-sensitive._

Authentication Methods
----------------------
Note:
_To enable AAA the `aaa new-model` command must be configured.
To disable AAA then use the `no` form of this command.
No other AAA commands are available until this command is entered._

Note:
_It is important to know that when the `aaa new-model` command is first entered,
then an unseen `default` authentication using the local database
is automatically applied to all lines except the console.
For this reason, always configure a local database entry before enabling AAA._

Use the `aaa authentication login` command to enable authentication of the console, aux, and vty lines.
The default keyword applies authentication to all lines.
Alternatively, a custom authentication method can be configured using a list-name.

The final portion of the command identifies the type of methods that will be queried to authenticate the users.
Up to four methods can be defined, providing fallback methods should one method not be available.
When a user attempts to log in, the first method listed is used.
Cisco IOS software attempts authentication with the next listed authentication method
only when there is no response, or an error from the previous method occurs.
If the authentication method denies the user access, the authentication process stops
and no other authentication methods are allowed.

To specify that a user can authenticate using the _enable_ password, use the `enable` keyword.
To ensure that the authentication succeeds even if all methods return an error, specify `none` as the final method.

Note:
_For security purposes, use the `none` keyword only when testing the AAA configuration.
It should never be applied on a live network._

`aaa authentication login` Command Syntax
-----------------------------------------
    R1(config)# aaa authentication login {default | <list-name>} method1...[method4]
* `default` 
    - the default list of authentication methods used when a user logs in
* `<list-name>` 
    - name the list of authentication methods activated when a user logs in
* `method1...[method4]`
    - list of methods that AAA authentication process will query in the given sequence.
    - at least one method must be specified
    - maximum 4 methods may be specified

`login` Method Types
--------------------
* `enable`	
    - uses the _enable_ password for authentication
* `local`
    - uses the local username database for authentication
* `local-case`
    - uses case-sensitive local username authentication
* `none`
    - uses no authentication
* `group radius`
    - uses the list of all RADIUS servers for authentication
* `group tacacs+`
    - uses the list of all TACACS+ servers for authentication
* `group <group-name>`
        - uses a subset of RADIUS or TACACS+ servers for authentication as defined by one of below commands


    R1(config)# aaa group server radius 
    R1(config)# aaa group server tacacs+

Default and Named Methods
-------------------------
For flexibility, different method lists can be applied to different interfaces
and lines using the `aaa authentication login <list-name>` command.

In this example, the vty line would only use the local database for authentication.
All other lines (i.e., console and aux lines) would use the local database
and use the _enable_ password as a fallback if there were no database entries on the device.

Note:
_The named list has to be explicitly enabled on the line using the `login authentication` __line configuration__ command.
If a line has a custom authentication method list applied to it,
that method list overrides the default method list for that interface.
When a custom authentication method list is applied to an interface,
it is possible to return to the default method list by using the `no authentication login` command._

    R1(config)# username JR-ADMIN algorithm-type scrypt secret Str0ng3rPa55w0rd
    R1(config)# username ADMIN algorithm-type scrypt secret Str0ng3rPa55w0rd
    R1(config)# aaa new-model
    R1(config)# aaa authentication login default local-case enable
    R1(config)# aaa authentication login SSH-LOGIN local-case
    R1(config)# line vty 0 4
    R1(config-line)# login authentication SSH-LOGIN

Fine-Tuning the Authentication Configuration
--------------------------------------------
    R1(config)# aaa local authentication attempts max-fail 10

Unlike the `login delay` command this command locks the user account if the authentication fails.
The locked out user account remains locked until it is manually cleared by an administrator using the `clear aaa local user lockout` privileged EXEC mode command.

    R1# show aaa local user lockout
    R1# clear aaa local user lockout

    R1# show aaa user
    R1# show aaa sessions

Debugging AAA Authentication
----------------------------
    R1# debug aaa authentication
    R1# no debug aaa authentication

    R1# undebug all